[Music]
there's so much going on in airports and
on board the planes that you don't need
to bother learning at all but there are
things you do want to know yet no one
will tell you about them yeah here are
some of those secrets number one most
airports have this big folding corridor
that you walk from the building to the
aircraft but some still have buses in
their service and even though the
distance is not that big you have to
cram into them instead of walking that's
simply because the ground crew doesn't
want you to wander around the airfield
you can distract the workers or worse
get in big trouble when a nearby engine
starts speaking of which number two if
you get off the bus and step away too
much the ground crew might ask you not
to walk under the planes wings
there are two reasons for that first the
wings of a passenger plane aren't quite
close to the ground and you can hit your
head on them if you are inattentive and
second again if the engine starts and
you're close by you might just get
washed into the turbine number three
some safety rules that don't make sense
for you leave the crew none the wiser
for example many pilots don't get the
idea behind allowing flight attendants
to walk around the aircraft at the
cruising altitude the airplane is
hurtling forward at the speeds of
hundreds of miles per hour how in the
world is that safe at the same time when
the plane is only about to take off and
moving at a snail's pace they have to be
strapped in their seats for some reason
for if you were ever worried about how
the pilots find their way in the dark
when landing at night you can rest easy
now there's an incredibly complex
illumination system on the ground that
helps the crew navigate the plane and
it's not just the red and white lights
along the runway the lights actually
start popping up long before the runway
so that the pilots could easily find
their way and different patterns mean
different things which your captain and
co-pilot know by heart
five the hardest and most dangerous part
of any flight is landing so much so in
fact that all commercial planes will
tell the pilots to decide whether it's
okay to land and the airplane literally
says it out loud it's called a decision
altitude a point of no return when the
crew has to make a choice either land
the aircraft or go up and make another
circle around the airport any lor and
there would be no going back six let's
admit even when the fasten your seat
belt sign is on many of us pretty much
ignore it during the flight most of the
time although you still do it at your
own risk
that doesn't have any consequences but
you better pay attention and buckle up
when the captain tells the flight
attendants to take their seats
it means the plane is about to hit some
real nasty turbulence 7 there's a reason
you won't ever see an elderly person or
a child in the emergency exit row if an
emergency does occur the passenger is
sitting closest to the exit might have
to open the door for the rest of the
people on board well there's still time
before the take-off the flight
attendants will approach the passengers
in the emergency exit row and instruct
them on what to do if they're unable to
do it themselves so those passengers
have to be able bodied adults eight ever
wondered why they asked you to keep your
seat back upright upon takeoff and
landing that's because if you lean back
you might block the passenger right
behind you and in case of emergency
they'll have a much harder time
evacuating apart from that it's always
good form to ask the person behind you
if they're okay with you leaning back
after all they might be working on a
laptop or just have long legs and you
might cause a lot of inconvenience by
being inattentive never mind the fact
that the airline has assigned you both
into the sardine section packed in so
tightly that neither of you has any
wiggle room but that's something for
another video 9 when a flight attendant
offers you a drink you want to avoid
carbonated ones you see carbon dioxide
stimulates intestinal gas production
plainly speaking you'll probably
experience bloating and overall
discomfort sometimes it even causes
nausea up for plain water or juice
instead and on that note 10 tea and
coffee may also be risky beverages
regulations require that water be taken
from secure sources but not all airlines
follow this rule and simply boil tap
water even boiled though it can't
contain some harmful bacteria and if you
drink tea or coffee made with such water
don't be surprised with some unpleasant
after-effects 11
this isn't about airplanes but still you
might have seen in the movies how people
getting off a helicopter bow down they
presumably avoid hitting the rotor
blades with her head but in reality it's
not necessary even the tallest person
won't be able to get into such trouble
this is just our intuitive reaction to
something being over our head we do the
same thing in a room with a low ceiling
even though we know we can't possibly
hit our noggin on it so it's not
something to lose your head over 12 if
you've flown with different airlines you
might have noticed that some of them
require passengers to board in different
ways in fact there are several official
boarding methods each used by different
airlines the most common one and
ironically the least effective is the
rear to front method where passengers
take their seats starting from the back
of the plane and gradually moving
towards the front the most efficient
method taking on average about 10
minutes less is the random seating when
passengers don't have seat assignments
basically it's a free-for-all
13 if you've ever fancied taking a free
ride aboard a plane by hiding in some
inconspicuous corner ditch that thought
airplanes go through a very thorough
check before every flight and there are
literally no secret hiding places anyone
could use of course there are rest areas
for the cabin crew but their name says
everything about them
14 first thing they get started on an
airplane is not the engines
it's the APU or the auxiliary power unit
it's a small additional engine located
in the tail of the airplane that
kick-starts the electrical systems and
bleeds air for the engines and air
conditioning inside the cabin it uses up
the plane's fuel though so in many
airports the APU is replaced by ground
systems that power the plane's 15 you've
surely noticed how much louder the
airplane becomes when it's landing you
might think it's the engines but in
reality that's the reverse thrusters
being deployed they're necessary to
create additional force against the
direction of the airplane if they're not
used the plane might not stop in time
and crash into another aircraft or the
airport fence which is something to
avoid if you can they do add to the
noise though 16 on average flights are
becoming slower and slower with each
decade today for example a flight from
New York to Chicago would take about 20
minutes longer than it did in the
mid-90s the reason is as simple as
always money the cost of fuel is
constantly rising so in order to avoid
drastic ticket price spikes airlines
decided to make air travels a bit slower
to save fuel it's no secret that the
faster the plane flies the more fuel it
consumes so this measure has been quite
effective I wonder if the speed ever
drops below the line where it would be
faster to go by car though so hey if
you've ever been sucked into a jet
engine or just learn something new today
then give the video a like and share it
with a friend and here are some other
videos I think you'll enjoy just click
to the left or right and remember stay
on the bright side of life
[Music]